# Hospital Example
Using python, "Consider building a predictive model to determine the length of stay in a hospital, not “in general” but with specifcity for “each individual.” We may use many different historical factors (age, gender, disease, comorbidity, and many others) to build our model."

# Closed-form expression
The frst example  is when we derive a solution from a small set of formulas or rules that are evaluated in a finite number of operations. These are called closed-form expressions . A very simple closed-form expression is the average of a sample. Step 1: sum up all the elements in the sample. Step 2: take that sum and divide by the number of elements in the sample. The result is the statistical mean or average of the sample. Some solutions require many more steps, but it is always a fnite number of steps. At the heart of these closed-form expressions are assumptions and solving with calculus to derive the closed-form expression. So thanks, math people, for providing a much simpler set of equations or better yet a computer program implementation of these formulas that solves it for us. 

# Algorithm-based
The second set  is algorithms that require a computer program to search for the best answer. Machine learning and other data mining methods are domains for these algorithms. This is typically done by specifying a candidate solution (model or solution space) and letting the computer run until it fnds the best possible solution based on some criteria. An example could be imaging processing, where we use a model-building algorithm to generate a model to predict a brain aneurysm based on patient brain scans. However, using these algorithms, the best answer might never be found. 

# Credits
Burk, S., Miner, G. (2020). It's All Analytics! The Foundations of AI, Big Data, and Data Science Landscape for Professionals in Healthcare, Business, and Government. United Kingdom: Productivity Press. Code samples generated by Grok (xAI).
